

# ASYDO (Astronomical Syntetic Data Observations) #

The objective of this project is to generate synthetic cubes of spectral data, similar to those that ALMA generates.

Authors:

 * Mauricio Araya
 * Teodoro Hochfärber


## Introduction ##
The size and quantity of the data that is being generated by large astronomical projects like ALMA, requires a paradigm change in astronomical data analysis. Complex data, such as highly sensitive spectroscopic data in the form of large data cubes, are not only difficult to manage, transfer and visualize, but they also turn unfeasible the use of traditional data analysis techniques and algorithms. Consequently, the attention have been placed on machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques, to develop approximate and adaptive methods for astronomical data analysis within a reasonable computational time.

### The Problem ###

Unfortunately, these techniques are usually sub-optimal, stochastic and strongly dependent of the parameters, which could easily turn into "a ghost in the machine" for astronomers and practitioners. Therefore, a proper assessment of these methods is not only desirable but mandatory for trusting them in large-scale usage. The problem is that positively verifiable results are scarce in astronomy, and moreover, science using bleeding-edge instrumentation naturally lacks of reference values.

### Our Proposal ###

We propose an Astronomical SYnthetic Data Observatory (ASYDO), a virtual service that generates synthetic spectroscopic data in the form of data cubes. The objective of the tool is not to produce accurate astrophysical simulations, but to generate a large number of labelled synthetic data, to assess advanced computing algorithms for astronomy and to develop novel Big Data algorithms. The synthetic data is generated using a set of spectral lines, template functions for spatial and spectral distributions, and simple models that produce reasonable synthetic observations. Emission lines are obtained automatically using IVOA's SLAP protocol (or from a relational database) and their spectral profiles correspond to distributions in the exponential family. The spatial distributions correspond to simple functions (e.g., 2D Gaussian), or to scalable template objects. The intensity, broadening and radial velocity of each line is given by very simple and naive physical models, yet ASYDO's generic implementation supports new user-made models, which potentially allows adding more realistic simulations. The resulting data cube is saved as a FITS file, also including all the tables and images used for generating the cube. We expect to implement ASYDO as a virtual observatory service in the near future.


## Downloading and Installing ##

ASYDO is a free software (GPL) mostly in Python by the LIRAE group. Any contribution, including comments, ideas, critisism, code or complains are very welcome. 
ASYDO's development is managed by GitHub's [ChileanVirtualObservatory platform](https://github.com/ChileanVirtualObservatory/ASYDO) . Feel free to contact us through GitHub!
Downloading ASYDO
For obtaining ASYDO you can download it via web (Download ZIP link), or you can download the development repository using git:

> git clone https://github.com/ChileanVirtualObservatory/ASYDO.git

There is no stable release of ASYDO yet, so there is no version numbering yet... (or if you prefer we are in version 0.09-alpha :P).
For the same reason there is no automatic module instalation. 

### Dependencies ###
 * scipy
 * numpy
 * matplotlib
 * astropy 
 * pysqlite


###  Installing ###
As ASYDO should work as an installable python package, and it will be configured as such in a near future. For the moment, the ASYDO package and database creation files
should copy to your working directory. For example, in a unix-based system:

>  user@machine:~/yourproject$ cp -r ../path\_to\_ASYDO/src/asydopy .
>  user@machine:~/yourproject$ cp ../path\_to\_ASYDO/src/dbCreator\* .

### Database ###

To create the database, go to /src/db and run dbCreator.py. By default, it will download a .csv from our server, and import it to a SQLITE database.
If you want to import your spectral lines, we currently support 2 ways of doing this:
  * *By Custom .CSV*: To use this option, you must run dbCreator.py with the flag "-C", followed by the path to your .CSV
  * *By Query to a SLAP service*: To use this option, you must run dbCreator.py with the flag "-T", followed by the URL to the service.

By default, the script will download the lines in range from 88 Ghz to 720 Ghz (the ALMA spectral Band)
If you want to use a custom range you must add to the previous instruction the flag "-R", followed by you custom range in the format "minimal\_frequency:maximum\_frequency"


